Well, I think that kind of concludes
the whole design patterns section of this
workshop.
So we talked about the module pattern,
singleton pattern, proxy pattern,
observer pattern, factory pattern and
prototype pattern.
But the next one is not so
much on like the JavaScript design
patterns are more on react patterns.
And these, I'll talk about how
we can use different components,
how their data is shared and
just their relationship to each other.
So, first let's talk about
the Container Presentational Pattern.
So with the container
presentational pattern,
we essentially have two components.
I'm just going to make this real quick.
We have a container components, which is
a component that's solely responsible for
retrieving data.
And then we have a presentational
component which is solely responsible for
showing data, rendering data.
So because the container component is only
fetching data, it usually doesn't like
render any styled components, it just
renders the presentational components.
So, when we look at the implementation
here, this is using React hooks.
By the way most of my examples
I will use React hooks.
I will also cover the hooks pattern so you
can kind of see how the different patterns
relate to how we can
implement hooks nowadays.
So I do like assume that
you know how hooks work.
But if there are any questions about, like
these basic like use of XQ state hooks,
of course, do let me know.
Yeah, so in this implementation, we have
the listings container components and
container components responsible for
fetching data.
And we can see that here because it's
fetching, like listings from an API or
like a CMS sets the state
to have those listings and
then passes them down to
the listings component.
Are like that
the presentational component.
I feel like this should have been
the presentational component this may be
a typo in my end.
So what we have here is we have that
listing container component that
you saw before.
So this one fetches listing from our API
passes down to this listings component
which here's just called listings which
is probably why I made the mistake.
But this is a presentational components.
So in here it retrieves this
the listings as props and
the only thing he cares about is
rendering that data in a styled way.
I'm just getting roads screenly.
Yeah, so that was the container
presentational pattern.
Now, there are many trade offs or
benefits to using this pattern.
As you can see, there's definitely
a separation of concerns.
Because the presentational components
can be just responsible for the UI.
Like just the styling of how
are we going to render that data.
Whereas like container components
are just responsible for
the state of the data of the application.
Yeah, it's also super easy that way
to like reuse these presentational
components.
Maybe they are using like different
data sources different data but
they're render the content the same way.
So we can reuse this presentational
components even though they
like retrieve different data from props.
It's also nice if you have many
presentational components that don't
really touch the fetching logic.
So, if you just care about the design or
you maybe you're a designer,
you don't really know what
gets returned from the API.
You can make a lot of changes to these
presentational components without maybe
accidentally like making a mistake
with that data how data is fetched and
all that stuff.
Now, of course like Hooks we will see
later how Hooks kind of replace this
pattern a lot of the time we don't really
necessarily have to use this container
presentational pattern anymore.
Or as much as we had to when we used
classes just because it was like more work
to like create a class all that stuff but
we will see that a bit later.
All right, so the exercise even though I
kind of already showed you the solution
here but we see an exercise here.
So right now, we just have one component
it's called the listings components.
But then this component,
it's not split up into two separate parts.
We don't have like a container part or
a presentational part,
it's just one big component.
So what I would like you to do is to
split this up into two components,
a container components and
a presentational components.
So the container component responsible for
fetching the data and
then the presentational components
responsible for showing the data.
Now, you can I guess already kind of
see I've already created the folder
structure for you.
So you have like presentational here and
then container here.
So you can just type the container code
right in the container listings file.